---
layout: post
title: "School's Out Forever! Middle School League"
cover: /assets/images/2025-06-20/schools_out_2025_small.gif
---

<p align="center">
<iframe width="420" height="315" src="{{site.cdn_url}}/assets/images/2025-06-20/schools_out_2025.webm" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay;" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

**Guess what: School’s Out Forever Is BACK!**

* **Format:** Middle School, using Eternal Central’s deck construction and play
  rules (i.e. mana burn, damage on the stack, and original Wish
  functionality). Rules can be found on the
  [Lords of the Pit website](https://lordsofthepit.com/formats#middle-school-rules)
* **Location:** Webcams! Players can use GChat, Zoom, Discord, Whereby, or whatever
  service they like to play their matches. If you have questions about playing
  paper Magic over webcams, please contact Stu for basic tips, or do some
  Googling. Romancing the Stones manages a [Discord](https://discord.gg/9T8tqdFuJV)
  server. Check there for more info on where the easiest places to play are.
* **Proxy Limit:** 100% proxy. Please make your proxies clear so opponents
  can easily identify them over webcam. One card that is just sharpie'd on is fine, but
* **Entry:** RSVP to romancingthestonesmtg@gmail.com by Friday, June 20. When
  you RSVP, please include **both** your real name and Discord handle in the
  body of the email. 
* Decklists: send a decklist to romancingthestonesmtg@gmail.com **prior** to
  your first match the week of June 23. At the end of the league, we’ll ask
  for delicious deck photos to share on our site.
* Structure: X Swiss Rounds with a cut to Top 8. Players will have 1 week to
  coordinate and play each match. Round 1 kicks off Monday, June 23

Signups close on Friday, June 20th. Round 1 will begin Monday, June 23rd.

